Feb. 15, 2025

If you have never had the pleasure of being acquainted with a sudden, sharp moment of clarity in which you are immediately confronted with an intense understanding of how worthlessly you have spent so much of your life's limited time and energy, then perhaps this text is not for you. For if you have truly found a fulfilling path through life, I can see no reason to rechart your course. And if you have been blessed enough to avoid the scathing voice of critical self-reflection, I am not well-convinced that you will have died better off had that not been the case. But if you have, in a brief moment of lucidity, found yourself asking to what end you toil, or why you lie stationary and waste away, then I hope both that my words can find use to you, and yours to me and others.

It is hard to imagine that you have never once stopped to think about why you live, but if you have not, it is a worthwhile exercise. The realization of the purposelessness in my life's effort through the first twenty years of my life have naturally left me inclined to dissect the meaning in existence. It is extremely easy to arrive at a feeling that life is an entirely meaningless pursuit. Maybe you can say you find meaning in fulfilment (say, in community or in knowledge or in pleasure). The obvious follow-up is to ask what meaning there could possibly be in fulfilment. Maybe you have an answer to this question as well (as a very basic example: "it makes me feel nice"), but we could continue to demand motivation for every answer ever given (for example, "why does it matter that you feel nice"). Though we have been well programmed to bury these questions under countless layers of abstraction and distraction so as to enable daily life, when setting aside biases and intently drilling to bedrock, if you are anything like me, you may either stumble upon a chain of reasoning that lies floating in space, untethered at its distant endpoint, or a confusing maze of entailments that ultimately find themselves wandering back to where they started. In short, on the quest to find meaning in existence, I have returned hands and pockets empty.

Of course, this heavily abridges the thoughts with which I have wrestled, little of whose detail has been poured into text. But nonetheless, here I find myself stuck: no reason to live, though, by the same logic, no reason to die. So while I have hit a deadend in my own endeavors, it is impossible to think that such quandries have not plagued greater thinkers than myself. So I now embark on a journey to discover how smarter people have explored metaphysics and human experience.

My first (admittedly very ambitious) goal is to work through Kant's *Critique of Pure Reason*. The first stop will be Descartes, Hume, and Leibniz.
